- Right now,
pretty much everything
is going Republicans' way.
You had big, wipe-out elections
in Virginia and New Jersey.
- Oh, what a night it was.
- Didn't win in New Jersey,
but it was a huge shift
in the vote total.
Very low approval ratings
for President Biden right now.
He's dipped into the 30s
in a number of national polls.
You have real kitchen-table
issues that are hitting voters
that are being blamed now
on Democrats.
- A lot of Republicans would say
it's Trump's party.
- When's the last time
you spoke to Donald Trump?
- Uh, this morning.
- The base, a lot of members,
if you listen to, do see him
as the leader of their party.
- Wow, thank you
very much, everybody.
- He remains the biggest voice
in the party.
He is continuing to set
the agenda in the party.
Everyone in the party is sort
of operating under his shadow
or reacting to him.
He continues to pick fights
with other Republicans.
- It's a very tenuous situation,
with Trump, you know,
no longer in office but still
very powerful and influential.
McConnell is in office,
able to raise money,
able to exert his will
in the Senate
because of the filibuster,
for example.
After the election,
on December 15,
McConnell announced
on the Senate floor that.
- The electoral college
has spoken.
So today, I want to congratulate
President-elect Joe Biden.
- And then McConnell had
a very contentious phone
call with Trump
in which he basically told the
President he lost the election.
- Mitch McConnell should have
challenged that election,
because even back then,
we had plenty of material
to challenge that election.
He should have challenged
the election.
- Both of them told me
in interviews
that they haven't
talked since then.
And Trump has called
for McConnell to be ousted
as the Senate Republican leader.
- He has demonstrated
that he can increase
turnout
for Republican candidates.
He can bring people into
the political process
that Republicans didn't
have access to before.
If you look at the Virginia
election results.
- We won this day!
- Terry McAuliffe got more votes
than any Democrat
in the history of that state
and lost pretty handily.
And a lot of that is because
there was massive turnout
in rural areas of the state.
Youngkin had a real challenge.
He was going into a state,
Virginia,
that has really been voting blue
in recent years.
The way he did it was he didn't
talk about President Trump.
He didn't engage in the sort
of culture-war stuff
that former President Trump
was engaged in.
And the key part of all that
was he did it
with Trump's permission.
There were conversations he was
having during the campaign
with former President Trump
explaining his strategy,
explaining why
he wasn't inviting
President Trump to Virginia
to campaign with him,
and Trump was okay with it.
Trump felt like they had
a connection.
Businesspeople.
He respected Youngkin.
He felt like Youngkin was
running on his policy platform.
He felt like he was being
respected by Youngkin,
and so he never made waves.
He wanted the win.
- I did ask him about 2024,
and he said that essentially
he can't declare now,
because there's various
campaign rules.
It would become too complicated.
Certainly at rallies
and conversations,
he's made it seem
like he's running.
You know, you can't absolutely
be certain with Trump,
but he's certainly made all
of the signals as if he will.
And as soon as he says,
"I'm not,"
his power would immediately
diminish.
So it's also in his interest
in the short-term
to leave the impression
that he will run.
- There's enormous optimism
when it comes to the House.
It's a five-seat margin
right now.
Redistricting is going to
give Republicans an advantage,
and you have all these
historical crosswinds
that are going
to help Republicans.
There's very few Democrats
I talk to now
who think there's much chance
of holding onto the House.
- Here we are, 10 months
or so after the insurrection,
10 months after the inauguration
of Joe Biden,
and Trump is still
the star of his party.
- His currency, in my eye,
I think is very good.
I think he feels like he's in
a very strong position
to return to power if that's,
you know, what he chooses to do.
- And we will make
America great again!
- To continue
to maintain his position
in the Republican party,
we reported that in late August,
he was talking to aides about
maybe just announcing
for president right then.
I think his mind is also that
if he can come out
of the midterms
with a Republican win,
he can then take credit for it
in a way that would help him
going forward into the 2024
presidential election.